>> Mathew DesLauriers: I wanna go back to
this image that we're trying to create.
We're trying to create these things.
And we're not quite there yet, and that's
because we don't have this rotation,
we don't have this text, and we don't have
this sort of undulating wavy-like pattern.
And the way we're gonna
achieve that is using noise.
So this is a new topic, here we go.
So noise function is a specific type
of function that you don't really need
to know what's under the hood.
You don't really need to know the black
box that goes on inside this function.
You just need to understand
the way that noise functions work.
Is that you pass in a coordinate,
which is gonna be either
a 2D coordinate like xy or
a 3D xyz, or a 4D xyzw.
And with that coordinate, you get
back a value for that coordinate, so
you get back a value, which is v here,
and this value's between -1 and 1.
And this value is gonna be
slowly varying between -1 and
1 based on the coordinate you pass in.
So if you pass in 0.5,
0.5 as your coordinate, you're always
gonna get back the same value.
Maybe it's a -0.325 or
something like that,
and it's just some
pseudo-random looking value.
But if you pass in a coordinate that's
very close to the other coordinate, you're
gonna end up with a value that's also very
close to the random value you had before.
And so, what that's gonna allow us to
do is, it's gonna allow us to create
this sort of undulating range of different
numbers, cuz right now, our random
functions, they're all just using either
Gaussian randomness or uniform randomness,
and you end up, every time you call that
function, you get a different value.
Sometimes it's like 0.9,
sometimes it;s like 0.1.
And so, those two different values are so
different that if you place two different
out of brush strokes or two different
items next to each other, they're
gonna end up looking wildly different.
What we wanna do is make it so that they
slowly undulate from one value to another.
And so a noise value can sort
of be visualized like this grid.
And the way you would actually visualize
a grid like that, or an image like that,
is by using the noise function,
where you have the x and y coordinate.
So in the case of this image,
it's actually just like a grid,
like what we were doing before,
except instead of a grid of 5x5 or 10x10,
it's a grid of 100 pixels or
200 pixels wide by 150 pixels high,
so it's actually just a grid of pixels.
And so, you pass in the x and
y coordinate for that grid item,
you get back a value between -1 and 1, and
you map that value from -1 and
1 into a 0 to 1 range.
And this is a pattern
that I like to use a lot,
is to change a value that goes between -1
and 1 into a 0 to 1 range, you use this.
And then, we turn that into a percentage,
we floor it so
we get like a 98 or a 32, and
we just pass that into a CSS color string.
And that's what produces
an image like this.
You can also, you might be wondering
why is this useful so far, but
one of the nice things is the way
you can manipulate the coordinates.
And so, by scaling the coordinates that
are going into this noise function,
you can end up with
a very different image.
So this is multiplying the coordinates by
some large number, you end up with a lot
more variation and a lot more
frequent changes in the way that
the image is going from black to white or
from -1 to 1.
And this kind of, if you imagine
you're on a helicopter looking down
like a mountain terrain or
something like that.
Imagine the helicopter moves very far up,
the mountains look much smaller.
Or if the helicopter goes right down
to the hill, it looks much bigger.
And that's exactly what
happens when you multiply
the frequency by something smaller than 1,
you end up not really seeing the mountains
anymore, you just see like a big hill.
It's almost like you're
standing on a hill.
That's how I visualize
these noise functions.
You can also think of it as like a signal,
like an electromagnetic signal, or a wave
like a sound wave or something like that,
and the sound wave is going up and down.
And by changing the frequency of
the sound wave by like stretching it or
putting it closer, you end up with
different frequency of the image.
And so, we're gonna use the same thing,
except instead of randomly choosing
a size, instead of just using
random.value or random.gaussian,
we're gonna say, for each coordinate
in our grid, what's the noise value?
And then, we're gonna use that noise value
to change the size of the brush stroke or
the circle, or whatever the image
is that we're drawing, and
then also change the rotation.
And that's gonna be, it's not very
useful yet because if you try and
rotate a circle,
you can't see anything different,
but when we start to draw a text,
that will become more important.